                     CFITSIO - Beta Release
                         April 12, 1996

  Beta Software Disclaimer:  While this software has been extensively
  tested on many different machines, every single routine in the CFITSIO
  library has not been tested, nor has every possible option in the
  routines been tested.  Programmers should be cautious about using this
  software for critical applications and should independently verify any
  FITS files produced with this software to ensure that they are valid and
  correct.

CFITSIO is a library of ANSI C routines for reading and writing FITS
format files.  These C routines have nearly the same calling sequences
as the Fortran subroutines provided in the original fitsio library.
The main difference is that the C routines all have names beginning
with 'ff' rather than 'ft' in the Fortran subroutines.  Due to this
close similarity, users of CFITSIO may refer to the FITSIO User's Guide
(which is included with this release in the files fitsio.doc and
fitsio.ps; the postscript file is 65 pages long) to help understand
what each routine does.  Users should also refer to the prototypes of
all the user-callable routines that are included in the fitsio.h file.

This new CFITSIO library, written entirely in ANSI C, should
not be confused with the previously available set of C macros which
provide a C-callable interface to the Fortran fitsio routines.  These
older macros are contained in the cfitsio.h file that is distributed
along with the Fortran fitsio source files.

BUILDING CFITSIO
----------------

The CFITSIO code is contained in the following 9 source files:
  cfileio.c, convert.c, fitscore.c, getcol.c, getkey.c, modkey.c,
  putcol.c, putkey.c, and utilproc.c. The fitsio.h and fitsio2.h
  header files are also needed.

On VAX/VMS systems the following 2 macro-code files are needed:
   vmsieeed.mar and vmsieeer.mar

On VAX/VMS and ALPHA/VMS systems, the makevaxvms.com and makealphavms.com
command files may be used to build the cfitsio.olb object library
(e.g., type '@makevaxvms' at the Vax command line to build the CFITSIO
library on a Vax).

On Unix systems the Makefile included in this release may be used to
build the libcfitsio.a library file.  First, the name of the C compiler
to be used should be defined using the setenv command.  Then type,
'make' to build the CFITSIO library in the file libcfitsio.a.
For example,

% setenv CC gcc
% make

will build the CFITSIO library using the gcc compiler.

TESTING CFITSIO
---------------

The CFITSIO library should be tested by building and running
the testprog.c file included with the release.  On VMS systems,
type (assuming cc is the name of the C compiler command), type:

$ cc testprog.c
$ link testprog, cfitsio/lib
$ run testprog

On Unix systems (assuming the gcc compiler is being used), type:

% gcc -o testprog testprog.c -L. -lcfitsio
% testprog

The testprog program should produce a FITS file called testprog.fit
which is identical to the testprog.std FITS file included in this
release.  The diagnotic messages that are sent to the user's terminal
should be identical to the listing contained in the file testprog.out,
except that the date on the DATE keyword may vary depending on when the
programs is run.

USING CFITSIO
-------------

The CFITSIO User's Guide, contained in the files cfitsio.doc (plain
text file) and cfitsio.ps (postscript file), provides detailed
documentation about how to build and use the CFITSIO library.
It contains a description of every user-callable routine in the
CFITSIO interface.

The cookbook.c file provides some sample routines for performing common
operations on various types of FITS files.  Programmers are urged to
examine these routines for recommended programming practices when using
CFITSIO.  Users are free to copy or modify these routines for their own
purposes.

The cookbook program produces 2 FITS files, atestfil.fit and
btestfil.fit, which should be identical to the atestfil.std and
btestfil.std FITS files provided with this release.

SUPPORTED PLATFORMS
-------------------

CFITSIO has currently been tested on the following platforms:

   Operating System          Compiler
   ----------------          --------
   Sun OS                     gcc
   Sun Solaris                gcc
   Silicon Graphics IRIX      gcc and cc
   DECstation  Ultrix         gcc
   Dec Alpha OSF/1            gcc
   Dec Alpha OpenVMS          cc with /float=gfloat or /float=ieee options
   DEC VAX/VMS                gcc
   IBM PC w/ Windows 95       Borland C++ V4.5

CFITSIO will probably run on most other 32-bit Unix platforms without
any modification.  CFITSIO should also run on a Mac PC, but this has
not been tested.  Cray supercomputers and IBM mainframe computers are
currently not supported.

Reports of any success or failure to run CFITSIO on other platforms
would be appreciated.  Any problem reports or suggestions for
improvements are also welcome.  Please send any reports to the author
at:   pence@tetra.gsfc.nasa.gov

KNOWN BUGS:
-----------

 - none

NOT CURRENTLY IMPLEMENTED:
--------------------------

 All the routines described in the Fortran FITSIO User's Guide are also 
 available in the CFITSIO library, except for:

 - the routines which write or check the checksum keyword value

 - the routines that deal with FITS world coordinate system keywords

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
William D. Pence
HEASARC, NASA/GSFC
